The different actors in a blockchain network include peers, orderers, client applications, administrators and more. Each of these actors — active elements inside or outside a network able to consume services — has a digital identity encapsulated in an *X.509* digital certificate.  

*Principal*: the union of an identity and the associated attributes.  

For an identity to be **verifiable**, it must come from a trusted authority. A membership service provider (MSP) is how this is achieved in Fabric. More specifically, an MSP is a component that defines the rules that govern the valid identities for this organization. 

The default MSP implementation in Fabric uses X.509 certificates as identities, adopting a traditional Public Key Infrastructure (PKI) hierarchical model.  
A PKI provides a list of identities, and an MSP says which of these are members of a given organization that participates in the network.  

MSPs turn verifiable identities into the members of a blockchain network.

A PKI is comprised of Certificate Authorities who issue digital certificates to parties (e.g., users of a service, service provider), who then use them to **authenticate** themselves in the messages they exchange with their **environment**.  
A CA’s Certificate Revocation List (CRL) constitutes a reference for the certificates that are no longer valid. 

For a digital certificate describing a party called Mary Morris, Mary is the `SUBJECT` of the certificate, and the `SUBJECT` shows key facts about Mary. Mary’s public key is distributed within her certificate, whereas her private signing key is not. This signing key must be kept private.  
Cryptography allows Mary to present her certificate to others to prove her identity so long as the other party trusts the certificate issuer, known as a Certificate Authority (CA). As long as the CA keeps certain cryptographic information securely (meaning, its own private signing key), anyone reading the certificate can be sure that the information about Mary has not been tampered with — it will always have those particular attributes for Mary Morris. Think of Mary’s X.509 certificate as a digital identity card that is impossible to change.

**Authentication** requires that parties who exchange messages are assured of the identity that created a specific message. You might want to be sure you’re communicating with the real Mary Morris rather than an impersonator.  
For a message to have **“integrity”** means that cannot have been modified during its transmission. If Mary has sent you a message, you might want to be sure that it hasn’t been tampered with by anyone else during transmission.   

Traditional authentication mechanisms rely on **digital signatures** that allow a party to digitally sign its messages.   
Digital signatures also provide guarantees on the integrity of the signed message.

Digital signature mechanisms require each party to hold two cryptographically connected keys: a public key that is made widely available and acts as authentication anchor, and a private key that is used to produce digital signatures on messages. Recipients of digitally signed messages can verify the origin and integrity of a received message by checking that the attached signature is valid under the public key of the expected sender.  
The unique relationship between a private key and the respective public key is the cryptographic magic that makes secure communications possible. The unique mathematical relationship between the keys is such that the private key can be used to produce a signature on a message that only the corresponding public key can match, and only on the same message.（数字签名非加密，信息内容是明文）

An actor or a node is able to participate in the blockchain network, via the means of a digital identity issued for it by an authority trusted by the system.   
In the most common case, digital identities (or simply identities) have the form of cryptographically validated digital certificates that comply with X.509 standard and are issued by a Certificate Authority (CA).  

A Certificate Authority dispenses certificates to different actors. These certificates are digitally signed by the CA and bind together the actor with the actor’s public key (and optionally with a comprehensive list of properties). As a result, if one trusts the CA (and knows its public key), it can trust that the specific actor is bound to the public key included in the certificate, and owns the included attributes, by validating the CA’s signature on the actor’s certificate.（申请者将自己的公钥和其他信息给到 CA 申请证书；颁发证书时，CA 用自己的私钥对申请者的公钥和其他信息进行数字签名）  
CAs also have a certificate, which they make widely available. This allows the consumers of identities issued by a given CA to verify them by checking that the certificate could only have been generated by the holder of the corresponding private key (the CA).  
数字证书的目的是让公钥经过权威第三方的背书，使该公钥等同于申请者的数字身份，其他人通过数字证书确认通信的对方确实是通信的目标。信息的完整性由非对称加密的机制来保证。  

Because Root CAs (Symantec, Geotrust, etc) have to securely distribute hundreds of millions of certificates to internet users, it makes sense to spread this process out across what are called Intermediate CAs. These Intermediate CAs have their certificates issued by the root CA or another intermediate authority, allowing the establishment of a “chain of trust” for any certificate that is issued by any CA in the chain. This ability to track back to the Root CA not only allows the function of CAs to **scale** while still providing security — allowing organizations that consume certificates to use Intermediate CAs with confidence — it **limits the exposure of the Root CA**, which, if compromised, would endanger the entire chain of trust.

Fabric CA is a private root CA provider capable of managing digital identities of Fabric participants that have the form of X.509 certificates. Because Fabric CA is a custom CA targeting the **Root CA** needs of Fabric, it is inherently not capable of providing SSL certificates for general/automatic use in browsers. However, because some CA must be used to manage identity (even in a test environment), Fabric CA can be used to provide and manage certificates. It is also possible — and fully appropriate — to use a public/commercial root or intermediate CA to provide identification.  

When a third party wants to verify another party’s identity, it first checks the issuing CA’s CRL to make sure that the certificate has not been revoked.